docs/blog/content/material/_index.en.md, before:

+++
title = "Article Selections"
weight = 1
chapter = true
+++

Welcome to pick up some of article selections to read. Moreover look forward to your contribution!

1. [News! The distributed scheduling project ElasticJob is about to restart](/en/material/elasticjob/)

2. [Congratulations on graduation of Apache ShardingSphere as a Top-Level Project](/en/material/graduate/)

3. [How to construct the distributed database](/en/material/database/)

4. [Exploration and expansion of the community](/en/material/community/)

5. [Apache ShardingSphere is included in CNCF Landscape](/en/material/cncf/)

6. [Seata_AT](/en/material/seata/)

7. [The mixed open-source distributed transaction solution](/en/material/solution/)

8. [Would you like to become an Apache committer](/en/material/committer/)

9. [How automatic executor of ShardingSphere works](/en/material/engine/)

10. [How to merge the child resultsets](/en/material/result/)

11. [The quick explanation of ShardingSphere transaction module](/en/material/realization/)

12. [Revealing Sharding-Proxy —— Database Middleware Oriented DBA](/en/material/proxy/)

Commit message:

update blog (#6787)
* Update _index.cn.md

* Create alpha.cn.md

* Create alpha.en.md

* Update alpha.cn.md

* Update CNCF.cn.md

* Update CNCF.en.md

* Update ElasticJob.cn.md

* Update ElasticJob.en.md

* Update alpha.en.md

* Update committer.cn.md

* Update committer.en.md

* Update community.cn.md

* Update community.en.md

* Update database.cn.md

* Update database.en.md

* Update engine.cn.md

* Update engine.en.md

* Update graduate.cn.md

* Update graduate.en.md

* Update proxy.cn.md

* Update proxy.en.md

* Update realization.en.md

* Update realization.cn.md

* Update result.cn.md

* Update result.en.md

* Update seata.cn.md

* Update seata.en.md

* Update solution.cn.md

* Update solution.en.md

* Update _index.en.md

* Add files via upload

* Update alpha.cn.md

* Update _index.cn.md

* Update alpha.cn.md

docs/blog/content/material/_index.en.md, after:

+++
title = "Article Selections"
weight = 1
chapter = true
+++

Welcome to pick up some of article selections to read. Moreover look forward to your contribution!

1. [After years of stagnation, ElasticJob is back with the first Apache version 3.0.0-alpha](/en/material/alpha/)

2. [News! The distributed scheduling project ElasticJob is about to restart](/en/material/elasticjob/)

3. [Congratulations on graduation of Apache ShardingSphere as a Top-Level Project](/en/material/graduate/)

4. [How to construct the distributed database](/en/material/database/)

5. [Exploration and expansion of the community](/en/material/community/)

6. [Apache ShardingSphere is included in CNCF Landscape](/en/material/cncf/)

7. [Seata_AT](/en/material/seata/)

8. [The mixed open-source distributed transaction solution](/en/material/solution/)

9. [Would you like to become an Apache committer](/en/material/committer/)

10. [How automatic executor of ShardingSphere works](/en/material/engine/)

11. [How to merge the child resultsets](/en/material/result/)

12. [The quick explanation of ShardingSphere transaction module](/en/material/realization/)

13. [Revealing Sharding-Proxy —— Database Middleware Oriented DBA](/en/material/proxy/)
