docs/document/content/features/test-engine/performance-test.en.md, before:

+++
pre = "<b>3.10.5. </b>"
title = "Performance Test"
weight = 5
+++

## Target

The performance of ShardingSphere-JDBC, ShardingSphere-Proxy and MySQL would be compared here. INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE which regarded as a set of associated operation and SELECT which focus on sharding optimization are used to evaluate performance for the basic scenarios (single route, primary-replica replication & encrypt & sharding, full route). While another set of associated operation, INSERT & SELECT & DELETE, is used to evaluate performance for primary-replica replication.
To achieve the result better, these tests are performed with jmeter which based on a certain amount of data with 20 concurrent threads for 30 minutes, and one MySQL has been deployed on one machine, while the scenario of MySQL used for comparison is deployed on one machine with one instance.

## Test Scenarios

### Single Route

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on the same machine and each contains 1024 tables with `id` used for database sharding and `k` used for table sharding are designed for this scenario, single route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and single route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

### Primary-Replica Replication

One primary database and one replica database, which are deployed on different machines, are designed for this scenario based on ten thousand data volume.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & SELECT & DELETE sql statement on the basis of ten thousand data volume.

### Primary-Replica Replication & Encrypt & Sharding

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on different machines and each contains 1024 tables with `id` used for database sharding, `k` used for table sharding, `c` encrypted with aes and  `pad` encrypted with md5 are designed for this scenario, single route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and single route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

### Full Route

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on different machines and each contains one table are designed for this scenario, field `id` is used for database sharding and `k` is used for table sharding, full route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and full route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

## Testing Environment

### Table Structure of Database

The structure of table here refer to `sbtest` in `sysbench`

```shell
CREATE TABLE `tbl` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `k` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  `c` char(120) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  `pad` char(60) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
);
```

### Test Scenarios Configuration

The same configurations are used for ShardingSphere-JDBC and ShardingSphere-Proxy, while MySQL with one database connected is designed for comparision.
The details for these scenarios are shown as follows.

#### Single Route Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test 
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
    tables:
      tbl:
        actualDataNodes: ds_${0..3}.tbl${0..1023}
        tableStrategy:
          inline:
            shardingColumn: k
            algorithmExpression: tbl${k % 1024}
        keyGenerateStrategy:
            type: SNOWFLAKE
            column: id
    defaultDatabaseStrategy:
      inline:
        shardingColumn: id
        algorithmExpression: ds_${id % 4}
    defaultTableStrategy:
      none:
```

#### Primary-Replica Replication Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  primary_ds:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
primaryReplicaReplicationRule:
  name: pr_ds
  primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds
  replicaDataSourceNames:
    - replica_ds_0
```

#### Primary-Replica Replication & Encrypt & Sharding Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  primary_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
  tables:
    tbl:
      actualDataNodes: pr_ds_${0..3}.tbl${0..1023}
      databaseStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: id
          algorithmExpression: pr_ds_${id % 4}
      tableStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: k
          algorithmExpression: tbl${k % 1024}
      keyGenerateStrategy:
        type: SNOWFLAKE
        column: id
  bindingTables:
    - tbl
  defaultDataSourceName: primary_ds_1
  defaultTableStrategy:
    none:
  primaryReplicaReplicationRules:
    pr_ds_0:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_0
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_0
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_1:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_1
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_1
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_2:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_2
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_2
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_3:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_3
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_3
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
encryptRule:
  encryptors:
    aes_encryptor:
      type: AES
      props:
        aes-key-value: 123456abc
    md5_encryptor:
      type: MD5
  tables:
    sbtest:
      columns:
        c:
          plainColumn: c_plain
          cipherColumn: c_cipher
          encryptorName: aes_encryptor
        pad:
          cipherColumn: pad_cipher
          encryptorName: md5_encryptor    
```

#### Full Route Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
  tables:
    tbl:
      actualDataNodes: ds_${0..3}.tbl1
      tableStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: k
          algorithmExpression: tbl1
      keyGenerateStrategy:
          type: SNOWFLAKE
          column: id
  defaultDatabaseStrategy:
    inline:
      shardingColumn: id
      algorithmExpression: ds_${id % 4}
  defaultTableStrategy:
    none:  
```

## Test Result Verification

### SQL Statement
 
```shell
INSERT+UPDATE+DELETE sql statements:
INSERT INTO tbl(k, c, pad) VALUES(1, '###-###-###', '###-###');
UPDATE tbl SET c='####-####-####', pad='####-####' WHERE id=?;
DELETE FROM tbl WHERE id=?

SELECT sql statement for full route:
SELECT max(id) FROM tbl WHERE id%4=1

SELECT sql statement for single route:
SELECT id, k FROM tbl ignore index(`PRIMARY`) WHERE id=1 AND k=1

INSERT+SELECT+DELETE sql statements：
INSERT INTO tbl1(k, c, pad) VALUES(1, '###-###-###', '###-###');
SELECT count(id) FROM tbl1;
SELECT max(id) FROM tbl1 ignore index(`PRIMARY`);
DELETE FROM tbl1 WHERE id=?
```

### Jmeter Class

Consider the implementation of [shardingsphere-benchmark](https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark/tree/master/shardingsphere-benchmark)
Notes: the notes in shardingsphere-benchmark/README.md should be taken attention to

### Compile & Build

```shell
git clone https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark.git
cd shardingsphere-benchmark/shardingsphere-benchmark
mvn clean install
```

### Perform Test

```shell
cp target/shardingsphere-benchmark-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar apache-jmeter-4.0/lib/ext
jmeter –n –t test_plan/test.jmx
test.jmx example:https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark/tree/master/report/script/test_plan/test.jmx
```

### Process Result Data

Make sure the location of result.jtl file is correct.
```shell
sh shardingsphere-benchmark/report/script/gen_report.sh
```

### Display of Historical Performance Test Data

In progress, please wait.
<!--
The data of [benchmark platform](https://shardingsphere.apache.org/benchmark/#/overview) is show daily
-->

Commit message:

Rename module name from primary-replica-replication to replica-query (#7943)
* Update doc for SQLParserFacade

* Rename module name from primary-replica-replication to replica-query

* Rename primary-replica-replication to replica-query

* Rename Primary-Replica Replication to replica query

* Rename primary_replica_replication to replica_query

* Rename primary replica replication to replica query

* Rename PrimaryReplicaReplication to ReplicaQuery

* Rename read-write-split to replica-query

docs/document/content/features/test-engine/performance-test.en.md, after:

+++
pre = "<b>3.10.5. </b>"
title = "Performance Test"
weight = 5
+++

## Target

The performance of ShardingSphere-JDBC, ShardingSphere-Proxy and MySQL would be compared here. INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE which regarded as a set of associated operation and SELECT which focus on sharding optimization are used to evaluate performance for the basic scenarios (single route, replica query & encrypt & sharding, full route). While another set of associated operation, INSERT & SELECT & DELETE, is used to evaluate performance for replica query.
To achieve the result better, these tests are performed with jmeter which based on a certain amount of data with 20 concurrent threads for 30 minutes, and one MySQL has been deployed on one machine, while the scenario of MySQL used for comparison is deployed on one machine with one instance.

## Test Scenarios

### Single Route

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on the same machine and each contains 1024 tables with `id` used for database sharding and `k` used for table sharding are designed for this scenario, single route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and single route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

### Replica Query

One primary database and one replica database, which are deployed on different machines, are designed for this scenario based on ten thousand data volume.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & SELECT & DELETE sql statement on the basis of ten thousand data volume.

### Replica Query & Encrypt & Sharding

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on different machines and each contains 1024 tables with `id` used for database sharding, `k` used for table sharding, `c` encrypted with aes and  `pad` encrypted with md5 are designed for this scenario, single route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and single route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

### Full Route

On the basis of one thousand data volume, four databases that are deployed on different machines and each contains one table are designed for this scenario, field `id` is used for database sharding and `k` is used for table sharding, full route select sql statement is chosen here.
While as a comparison, MySQL runs with INSERT & UPDATE & DELETE statement and full route select sql statement on the basis of one thousand data volume.

## Testing Environment

### Table Structure of Database

The structure of table here refer to `sbtest` in `sysbench`

```shell
CREATE TABLE `tbl` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `k` int(11) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  `c` char(120) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  `pad` char(60) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
);
```

### Test Scenarios Configuration

The same configurations are used for ShardingSphere-JDBC and ShardingSphere-Proxy, while MySQL with one database connected is designed for comparision.
The details for these scenarios are shown as follows.

#### Single Route Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test 
    password: 
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
    tables:
      tbl:
        actualDataNodes: ds_${0..3}.tbl${0..1023}
        tableStrategy:
          inline:
            shardingColumn: k
            algorithmExpression: tbl${k % 1024}
        keyGenerateStrategy:
            type: SNOWFLAKE
            column: id
    defaultDatabaseStrategy:
      inline:
        shardingColumn: id
        algorithmExpression: ds_${id % 4}
    defaultTableStrategy:
      none:
```

#### Replica Query Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  primary_ds:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
replicaQueryRule:
  name: pr_ds
  primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds
  replicaDataSourceNames:
    - replica_ds_0
```

#### Replica Query & Encrypt & Sharding Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  primary_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  primary_ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  replica_ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
  tables:
    tbl:
      actualDataNodes: pr_ds_${0..3}.tbl${0..1023}
      databaseStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: id
          algorithmExpression: pr_ds_${id % 4}
      tableStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: k
          algorithmExpression: tbl${k % 1024}
      keyGenerateStrategy:
        type: SNOWFLAKE
        column: id
  bindingTables:
    - tbl
  defaultDataSourceName: primary_ds_1
  defaultTableStrategy:
    none:
  replicaQueryRules:
    pr_ds_0:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_0
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_0
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_1:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_1
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_1
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_2:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_2
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_2
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
    pr_ds_3:
      primaryDataSourceName: primary_ds_3
      replicaDataSourceNames:
        - replica_ds_3
      loadBalanceAlgorithmType: ROUND_ROBIN
encryptRule:
  encryptors:
    aes_encryptor:
      type: AES
      props:
        aes-key-value: 123456abc
    md5_encryptor:
      type: MD5
  tables:
    sbtest:
      columns:
        c:
          plainColumn: c_plain
          cipherColumn: c_cipher
          encryptorName: aes_encryptor
        pad:
          cipherColumn: pad_cipher
          encryptorName: md5_encryptor    
```

#### Full Route Configuration

```yaml
schemaName: sharding_db

dataSources:
  ds_0:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_1:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_2:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
  ds_3:
    url: jdbc:mysql://***.***.***.***:****/ds?serverTimezone=UTC&useSSL=false
    username: test
    password:
    connectionTimeoutMilliseconds: 30000
    idleTimeoutMilliseconds: 60000
    maxLifetimeMilliseconds: 1800000
    maxPoolSize: 200
shardingRule:
  tables:
    tbl:
      actualDataNodes: ds_${0..3}.tbl1
      tableStrategy:
        inline:
          shardingColumn: k
          algorithmExpression: tbl1
      keyGenerateStrategy:
          type: SNOWFLAKE
          column: id
  defaultDatabaseStrategy:
    inline:
      shardingColumn: id
      algorithmExpression: ds_${id % 4}
  defaultTableStrategy:
    none:  
```

## Test Result Verification

### SQL Statement
 
```shell
INSERT+UPDATE+DELETE sql statements:
INSERT INTO tbl(k, c, pad) VALUES(1, '###-###-###', '###-###');
UPDATE tbl SET c='####-####-####', pad='####-####' WHERE id=?;
DELETE FROM tbl WHERE id=?

SELECT sql statement for full route:
SELECT max(id) FROM tbl WHERE id%4=1

SELECT sql statement for single route:
SELECT id, k FROM tbl ignore index(`PRIMARY`) WHERE id=1 AND k=1

INSERT+SELECT+DELETE sql statements：
INSERT INTO tbl1(k, c, pad) VALUES(1, '###-###-###', '###-###');
SELECT count(id) FROM tbl1;
SELECT max(id) FROM tbl1 ignore index(`PRIMARY`);
DELETE FROM tbl1 WHERE id=?
```

### Jmeter Class

Consider the implementation of [shardingsphere-benchmark](https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark/tree/master/shardingsphere-benchmark)
Notes: the notes in shardingsphere-benchmark/README.md should be taken attention to

### Compile & Build

```shell
git clone https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark.git
cd shardingsphere-benchmark/shardingsphere-benchmark
mvn clean install
```

### Perform Test

```shell
cp target/shardingsphere-benchmark-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar apache-jmeter-4.0/lib/ext
jmeter –n –t test_plan/test.jmx
test.jmx example:https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere-benchmark/tree/master/report/script/test_plan/test.jmx
```

### Process Result Data

Make sure the location of result.jtl file is correct.
```shell
sh shardingsphere-benchmark/report/script/gen_report.sh
```

### Display of Historical Performance Test Data

In progress, please wait.
<!--
The data of [benchmark platform](https://shardingsphere.apache.org/benchmark/#/overview) is show daily
-->
