docs/document/content/quick-start/shardingsphere-proxy-quick-start.en.md, before:

+++
pre = "<b>2.2. </b>"
title = "ShardingSphere-Proxy"
weight = 2
+++

## Scenarios

![shardingsphere-proxy](https://shardingsphere.apache.org/document/current/img/shardingsphere-proxy_v2.png)

ShardingSphere-Proxy is positioned as a transparent database proxy. It theoretically supports any client operation data using MySQL, PostgreSQL and openGauss protocols, and is friendly to heterogeneous languages and operation and maintenance scenarios.

## Limitations

Proxy provides limited support for system databases / tables (such as information_schema, pg_catalog). When connecting to Proxy through some graph database clients, the client or proxy may have an error prompt. You can use command-line clients (`mysql`, `psql`, `gsql`, etc.) to connect to the Proxy's authentication function.

## Requirements

Starting ShardingSphere-Proxy with Docker requires no additional dependency.
To start the Proxy using binary distribution, the environment must have Java JRE 8 or higher.

## Procedure

1. Get ShardingSphere-Proxy.

ShardingSphere-Proxy is available at:
- [Binary Distribution](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/bin/)
- [Docker](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/docker/)
- [Helm](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/helm/)

2. Rule configuration.

Edit `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/server.yaml`.

Edit `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/config-xxx.yaml`.

> %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME% is the proxy extract path. for example: `/opt/shardingsphere-proxy-bin/`

Please refer to [Configuration Manual](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/yaml-config/) for more details.

3. Import dependencies.

If the backend database is PostgreSQL or openGauss, no additional dependencies are required.

If the backend database is MySQL, please download [mysql-connector-java-5.1.47.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/5.1.47/mysql-connector-java-5.1.47.jar) or [mysql-connector-java-8.0.11.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/8.0.11/mysql-connector-java-8.0.11.jar) and put it into the `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/ext-lib` directory.

4. Start server.

* Use the default configuration to start

```bash
sh %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/bin/start.sh
```

The default port is `3307`, while the default profile directory is `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/`.

* Customize port and profile directory

```bash
sh %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/bin/start.sh ${proxy_port} ${proxy_conf_directory}
```

5. Use ShardingSphere-Proxy.

Use MySQL or PostgreSQL or openGauss client to connect ShardingSphere-Proxy.

Use the MySQL client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash
mysql -h${proxy_host} -P${proxy_port} -u${proxy_username} -p${proxy_password}
```

Use the PostgreSQL client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash 
psql -h ${proxy_host} -p ${proxy_port} -U ${proxy_username}
```

Use the openGauss client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash 
gsql -r -h ${proxy_host} -p ${proxy_port} -U ${proxy_username} -W ${proxy_password}
```

Commit message:

Add data sources force start document

docs/document/content/quick-start/shardingsphere-proxy-quick-start.en.md, after:

+++
pre = "<b>2.2. </b>"
title = "ShardingSphere-Proxy"
weight = 2
+++

## Scenarios

![shardingsphere-proxy](https://shardingsphere.apache.org/document/current/img/shardingsphere-proxy_v2.png)

ShardingSphere-Proxy is positioned as a transparent database proxy. It theoretically supports any client operation data using MySQL, PostgreSQL and openGauss protocols, and is friendly to heterogeneous languages and operation and maintenance scenarios.

## Limitations

Proxy provides limited support for system databases / tables (such as information_schema, pg_catalog). When connecting to Proxy through some graph database clients, the client or proxy may have an error prompt. You can use command-line clients (`mysql`, `psql`, `gsql`, etc.) to connect to the Proxy's authentication function.

## Requirements

Starting ShardingSphere-Proxy with Docker requires no additional dependency.
To start the Proxy using binary distribution, the environment must have Java JRE 8 or higher.

## Procedure

1. Get ShardingSphere-Proxy.

ShardingSphere-Proxy is available at:
- [Binary Distribution](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/bin/)
- [Docker](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/docker/)
- [Helm](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/startup/helm/)

2. Rule configuration.

Edit `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/server.yaml`.

Edit `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/config-xxx.yaml`.

> %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME% is the proxy extract path. for example: `/opt/shardingsphere-proxy-bin/`

Please refer to [Configuration Manual](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/yaml-config/) for more details.

3. Import dependencies.

If the backend database is PostgreSQL or openGauss, no additional dependencies are required.

If the backend database is MySQL, please download [mysql-connector-java-5.1.47.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/5.1.47/mysql-connector-java-5.1.47.jar) or [mysql-connector-java-8.0.11.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/8.0.11/mysql-connector-java-8.0.11.jar) and put it into the `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/ext-lib` directory.

4. Start server.

* Use the default configuration to start

```bash
sh %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/bin/start.sh
```

The default port is `3307`, while the default profile directory is `%SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/conf/`.

* Customize port and profile directory

```bash
sh %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/bin/start.sh ${proxy_port} ${proxy_conf_directory}
```

* Force start

```bash
sh %SHARDINGSPHERE_PROXY_HOME%/bin/start.sh -f
```

Use the `-f` parameter to force start the Proxy. This parameter will ignore the abnormal data source during startup and start the Proxy forcibly. After the Proxy is started, you can remove the abnormal data source by DistSQL.

5. Use ShardingSphere-Proxy.

Use MySQL or PostgreSQL or openGauss client to connect ShardingSphere-Proxy.

Use the MySQL client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash
mysql -h${proxy_host} -P${proxy_port} -u${proxy_username} -p${proxy_password}
```

Use the PostgreSQL client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash 
psql -h ${proxy_host} -p ${proxy_port} -U ${proxy_username}
```

Use the openGauss client to connect to the ShardingSphere-Proxy:
```bash 
gsql -r -h ${proxy_host} -p ${proxy_port} -U ${proxy_username} -W ${proxy_password}
```
