docs/document/content/user-manual/shardingsphere-scaling/build.en.md, before:

+++
pre = "<b>4.5.1. </b>"
title = "Build"
weight = 1
+++

## Build&Deployment

1. Execute the following command to compile and generate the ShardingSphere-Scaling binary package:

```
git clone https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere.git；
cd shardingsphere;
mvn clean install -Prelease;
```

The binary package's directory is:`/shardingsphere-distribution/shardingsphere-scaling-distribution/target/apache-shardingsphere-${latest.release.version}-shardingsphere-scaling-bin.tar.gz`。

2. Unzip the distribution package, modify the configuration file `conf/server.yaml`, we should ensure the port does not conflict with others, and other values can be left as default:

```
port: 8888
blockQueueSize: 10000
pushTimeout: 1000
workerThread: 30
```

3. Start up ShardingSphere-Scaling:

```
sh bin/start.sh
```

4. See the log file `logs/stdout.log`，ensure startup successfully.

5. Ensure startup successfully by `curl`.

```
curl -X GET http://localhost:8888/scaling/job/list
```

response:

```
{"success":true,"errorCode":0,"errorMsg":null,"model":[]}
```

## Shutdown ShardingSphere-Scaling
   
 ```
 sh bin/stop.sh
 ```
 
## Configuration

 The existing configuration items are as follows, We can modify them in `conf/server.yaml`：
 
| Name           | Description                                                                               | Default value |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| port           | Listening port of HTTP server                                                             | 8888          |
| blockQueueSize | Queue size of data transmission channel                                                   | 10000         |
| pushTimeout    | Data push timeout(ms)                                                                     | 1000          |
| workerThread   | Worker thread pool size, the number of migration task threads allowed to run concurrently | 30            |

Commit message:

Update scaling documents and configuration (#7757)
* update documents and conf.

* Update scaling documents and configuration

Co-authored-by: qiulu3 <Lucas209910>

docs/document/content/user-manual/shardingsphere-scaling/build.en.md, after:

+++
pre = "<b>4.5.1. </b>"
title = "Build"
weight = 1
+++

## Build&Deployment

1. Execute the following command to compile and generate the ShardingSphere-Scaling binary package:

```
git clone https://github.com/apache/shardingsphere.git；
cd shardingsphere;
mvn clean install -Prelease;
```

The binary package's directory is:`/shardingsphere-distribution/shardingsphere-scaling-distribution/target/apache-shardingsphere-${latest.release.version}-shardingsphere-scaling-bin.tar.gz`。

2. Unzip the distribution package, modify the configuration file `conf/server.yaml`, we should ensure the port does not conflict with others, and modify the resume from break-point(optional) server lists:

```
port: 8888
blockQueueSize: 10000
pushTimeout: 1000
workerThread: 30

resumeBreakPoint:
  name: scalingJob
  registryCenter:
    type: ZooKeeper
    serverLists: localhost:2181
    props:
      retryIntervalMilliseconds: 10000
```

3. Start up ShardingSphere-Scaling:

```
sh bin/start.sh
```

4. See the log file `logs/stdout.log`，ensure startup successfully.

5. Ensure startup successfully by `curl`.

```
curl -X GET http://localhost:8888/scaling/job/list
```

response:

```
{"success":true,"errorCode":0,"errorMsg":null,"model":[]}
```

## Shutdown ShardingSphere-Scaling
   
 ```
 sh bin/stop.sh
 ```
 
## Configuration

 The existing configuration items are as follows, We can modify them in `conf/server.yaml`：
 
| Name           | Description                                                                               | Default value |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| port           | Listening port of HTTP server                                                             | 8888          |
| blockQueueSize | Queue size of data transmission channel                                                   | 10000         |
| pushTimeout    | Data push timeout(ms)                                                                     | 1000          |
| workerThread   | Worker thread pool size, the number of migration task threads allowed to run concurrently | 30            |
| resumeBreakPoint   | Resume from break-point service                                                       |               |
