docs/community/content/involved/_index.en.md, before:

+++
pre = "<b>1. </b>"
title = "Get Involved"
weight = 1
chapter = true
+++

First off, thank you for your interest in ShardingSphere. We are a very open and active community, where dedicated contributors of all levels are welcome to join in the pursuit of the `Apache Way`.

You may participate in the community through the [Mailing-list Subscription](/en/involved/subscribe/), or simply by interacting with other members in the [ShardingSphere Slack channel](https://app.slack.com/client/T026JKU2DPF/C026MLH7F34)

If you are just getting started, please read the [Environment Set Up Guide](/en/involved/dev-env/) to set up the development environment for ShardingSphere.

Please read the [Contributor Conduct](/en/involved/conduct/) before becoming a contributor.

If you want to become a committer, please read the [Committers' Guide](/en/involved/committer/).
Committers can be granted authority by the Apache repo after [2FA](/en/involved/2fa/) enabled.

If you want to be a release manager, please read the [Release Guide](/en/involved/release/).

Thank you for attend ShardingSphere.

Commit message:

Add contribute url (#20530)
* Rename url from contribute to involved

* Rename url from contribute to involved

* Add contribute url

docs/community/content/involved/_index.en.md, after:

+++
pre = "<b>1. </b>"
title = "Get Involved"
weight = 1
chapter = true
+++

First off, thank you for your interest in ShardingSphere. We are a very open and active community, where dedicated contributors of all levels are welcome to join in the pursuit of the `Apache Way`.

You may participate in the community through the [Mailing-list Subscription](/en/involved/subscribe/), or simply by interacting with other members in the [ShardingSphere Slack channel](https://app.slack.com/client/T026JKU2DPF/C026MLH7F34)

Please read the [Contribute Guide] if you interested to contribute Apache ShardingSphere.

Please read the [Contribute Conduct](/en/involved/conduct/) before becoming a contributor.

If you want to become a committer, please read the [Committers' Guide](/en/involved/committer/).
Committers can be granted authority by the Apache repo after [2FA](/en/involved/2fa/) enabled.

If you want to be a release manager, please read the [Release Guide](/en/involved/release/).

Thank you for attend ShardingSphere.
