docs/community/content/contribute/committer.en.md, before:

+++
title = "Committer Guide"
weight = 3
chapter = true
+++

## Committer Promotion

The ShardingSphere community follows the [Apache Community’s process](http://community.apache.org/newcommitter.html) on accepting a new committer.
After a contributor participate ShardingSphere community actively, PMC and Committers will make decision to invite the contributor join Committers and PMC.

## Committer Responsibilities

 - Develop new features;
 - Refactor codes;
 - Review pull requests reliably and in time;
 - Consider and accept feature requests;
 - Answer questions;
 - Update documentation and example;
 - Improve processes and tools;
 - Guide new contributors join community.


##  Committer Routine

1. Committer needs to check the list of Pull Requests and issues to be processed in the community every day and assign them to the appropriate committer, namely assignee.

2. After a committer is assigned with an issue, the following work is required:

 - Judge whether it is a long-term issue. If it is, please mark it as pending.
 - Add issue labels, such as bug, enhancement, discussion, etc.
 - Add Milestone labels.
 
3. Pull Request that committer submits needs to mark labels and milestone based on the type and time.

> To be noticed: At least one committer is expected to be in the assignee list of that issue before it is completed.

Commit message:

Update committer.en.md (#7638)
add committer routine

docs/community/content/contribute/committer.en.md, after:

+++
title = "Committer Guide"
weight = 3
chapter = true
+++

## Committer Promotion

The ShardingSphere community follows the [Apache Community’s process](http://community.apache.org/newcommitter.html) on accepting a new committer.
After a contributor participate ShardingSphere community actively, PMC and Committers will make decision to invite the contributor join Committers and PMC.

## Committer Responsibilities

 - Develop new features;
 - Refactor codes;
 - Review pull requests reliably and in time;
 - Consider and accept feature requests;
 - Answer questions;
 - Update documentation and example;
 - Improve processes and tools;
 - Guide new contributors join community.


##  Committer Routine

1. Committer needs to check the list of Pull Requests and issues to be processed in the community every day and assign them to the appropriate committer, namely assignee.

2. After a committer is assigned with an issue, the following work is required:

 - Judge whether it is a long-term issue. If it is, please mark it as pending.
 - Add issue labels, such as bug, enhancement, discussion, etc.
 - Add Milestone labels.
 
3. Pull Request that committer submits needs to mark labels and milestone based on the type and time.

4. When committer reviewed and approved any Pull Request, committer could squash and merge to master. If there is any question you concerned about this Pull Request, contact us and we could disscuss.

> To be noticed: At least one committer is expected to be in the assignee list of that issue before it is completed.
