+++
pre = "<b>3.8. </b>"
title = "Data Migration"
weight = 8
chapter = true
+++

## Definition

Data migration refers to the preparation of data extraction from one storage cluster, the writing of that data to a new storage cluster and the verification of data consistency.

## Related Concepts

### Nodes

Instances for running compute or storage tier component processes. These can either be physical machines, virtual machines, or containers, etc.

### Cluster
Multiple nodes that are assembled together to provide a specified service.

### Source

The storage cluster where the original data resides.

### Target

The target storage cluster to which the original data is to be migrated.

### Data Migration Process

The entire process of replicating data from one storage cluster to another.

### Stock Data

The data that was already in the data node before the data migration operation started.

### Incremental Data

New data generated by operational systems during the execution of data migration operations.

## Limitations
### Procedures Supported

* Migration of peripheral data to databases managed by Apache ShardingSphere.
* Migration of integer or string primary key tables.

### Procedures not supported

* Migration without primary key tables.
* Migration of composite primary key tables.
* Migration on top of the current storage node is not supported, so a brand new database cluster needs to be prepared as the migration target cluster.

## References

[Configurations of data migration ](/en/user-manual/shardingsphere-proxy/scaling/)
